# README

| Author: Matsuru Hoshi |
| ---------------------|
| Date: 20251219 |
| Course: CSI4900 - Honours Project |

You need 3 things to run:
- Set up the Docker container for ORS simulations
- Create Map Dataset
- Train FastGAN

## Docker Container Setup

Clone ORS repository:

`git clone https://github.com/GIScience/openrouteservice`

Note: Docker daemon must to be installed to run Docker containers.

Find the folder where the the Docker file is present and open a terminal session there. 
Run the following command to start the Docker image:

`docker compose up`

From here, you can leave it running and follow the steps in "Creating Map Dataset."

Once you're done simulating routes, you can shut it down with:

`docker compose down`

For more information: https://giscience.github.io/openrouteservice/run-instance/running-with-docker

To add GIS maps for locations other than the default german town, you can download from OpenStreetMap or from https://download.geofabrik.de/index.html.

The docker `ors-config.yml` file in `OpenRouteService/ors-docker/config/` (from repository) may need to be edited to raise the max distance calculation limit, depending on the distances between coordinates.

Then, add the osm-file.pbf file to the `OpenRouteService/ors-docker/files/` directory. There should already be some .pbf files there.

I have added the files I used and modified in the `ORS Docker Files` folder. This includes both the `osm-file.pbf` file for the Nashville area and the minorly edited config file.

## Creating Map Dataset

Note: this requires the Docker container to be running

Find the `map-generation.py` file and run with Python:

`python map-generation.py`

Data Path and Save Path can be specified at the end of the file in the function call.

The code currently relies on the structure of the `final_step_data_collection/` folder, which inside contains various .csv files for each day of data.

The notebook is also available with some extra cells of code, if you wish to step through different blocks / analyze the data. You can play around with the route reparameterization there.

I have added my sample examples I made in the `routes-generated/test-final/` folder.

## Training and Evaluating on FastGAN

Note: Requires a CUDA accelerated GPU

Clone FastGAN repository:

`git clone https://github.com/bingchenlll/FastGAN-pytorch`

Find the FastGAN train file and run:

`python train.py --path maps-256/ --output_path your-save-path/ --name maps --im_size 256 --batch_size 8 --iter 50000 --workers 1`

Details:
- `maps-256/` directory contains the images created from `map-generation.py`.
- `iter` is number of iterations
- `im_size` is size of images being passed (max 1024, min 256)
- `batch_size` is size of batch being grabbed to train at a time
- `output_path` is where the model weights are saved

To evaluate the trained model and generate images from it:

`python eval.py --ckpt path/to/saved/model/ --start_iter 1 --end_iter 5 --batch 1 --im_size 256 --n_sample 10`

Will generate 10 256x256 images for every checkpoint (iteration saved model).

I had the model trained on 50000 iterations, so I generated images for all iterations it was saved at (10k, 20k, 30k, 40k, 50k). This means a total of 50 images were generated. By default, the `eval.py` increases for every 10k, but the multiplier can be changed. (see link at the bottom). Likewise, it can be changed in the `train.py` too.

Details:
- `ckpt` model used to evaluate. Path to model will be in folder generated by `train.py` somewhere inside folder named "maps" or whatever name you pass it in `--name`
- `start_iter` refers to start checkpoint (1 will start at 10000 iteration model)
- `end_ter` refers to end checkpoint (5 will go up to including iteration 50000)
- if `batch` is specified, will divide n_sample by the batch number given 

For more info: https://github.com/bingchenlll/FastGAN-pytorch. For specific flags/parameters, see in the respective files (train or eval)
